I am not good enough. I am not worthy of love. I am not smart enough. I am not successful enough. I am not slim enough. I am not pretty enough.. Everyone has a different life and therefore a different battle to fight every day. We have no idea what is happening behind closed doors or even worse, inside closed minds. Our minds can be a scary place at times. When they don’t allow us to function in our day to day routine we start to see the cracks in the perfect exterior.
From peer pressure at the young age of 8, to my father leaving as a teenager then abuse in my first serious relationship at 18. For some time I have been able to overcome my illness but in that time what I didn’t realise was that I was suffering in silence. It may come as a surprise to some people but those like me with a mental illness can have the ability to be strong willed. However, this is the quality in a person that leads to silence, the “I can sort this myself" or “No one needs to know" voices in your head.This is also the quality that means there will never be any substance abuse, alcohol, drugs or even eating disorders, because these can be seen by others, your change in character noticed by those close to you.
More and more this illness has affected my life. Though unknown to others, it made me retreat into my own mind when I was younger, making me an introvert. I constantly tried to seek approval from those around me.Tried to make and keep friends by impressing them. Tried to show I was worthy of their friendship. It made me strive for perfection in everything I do but if I didn’t receive the acknowledgement I put myself down, to the point where I wondered if I should even be breathing.
Stigma can exist in all areas of life. Recently my employer was unfairly treating a colleague who was off sick and taking medication for a mental illness. When I challenged my employer’s behaviour and told her I was taking the same medication for depression and anxiety, she looked at me as though I was suddenly worthless. "So that's what's wrong with you, that's why you're always spaced out." I felt so many mixed emotions, the first of which was anger, which is why I responded with my resignation letter but then after a while, I started blaming myself. Thinking that there was something wrong with me and that she was right.
When the one who claims to love you can make you feel so alone, in despair and unworthy of life; there’s a small part of you that disappears into darkness that you can never get back. It still affects me today more than I'd ever wish to admit.
I think we all have this conversation every day and we go away having no idea how the other person really is. It’s an English pleasantry, a well-rehearsed and ritualised exchange ingrained into our lives. Every time I have this conversation, I say I’m fine. The thing is, I’m not.It can be so hard to have that conversation, to say, actually, I’m not ok.I am also lost and I am tired. But I don’t say this.
The thing is, I worry, and in that worry I feel hopeless and helpless. My thoughts are dark and full of fear. If I tell you how I feel then you will worry too and I can’t stand the thought that you will feel the way I do and that it will be because of me. So I say nothing, and the moment is lost.
 I do cry. I cry a lot actually. It's not something that I am particularly proud of, but also, it's not something I am necessarily ashamed of. I cry at more things than I used to, but I also have more things to cry about than I used to. Sometimes it's too much. Sometimes life is too hard. I struggle every day to cope with even the simplest of things. I am SO tired. Four years, non-stop. Relentless. I cry in despair, I cry in anguish, I cry in hopelessness at a situation that I can't see a way out of. I cry in frustration at the things I can't do anymore. I strike myself because I am so frustrated, and I cry when I do that. I cry at the pain I cause myself. I cry because I hate myself and then I strike myself because I hate myself.But I also cry because it's good for me to let out all those emotions. 
The feeling of letting them go is a release to me, even if it is only for a small moment. Because I must. Because doing it saves me. Doing it drags me from the edge, makes me stop tumbling into oblivion, allows me to breathe for a bit. Instead of the edge of a cliff, I sit on the top of a mountain and catch a breath of fresh air. So, please don't judge me. You have no idea what I am going through. Actually no, please do, because I will use this to get better. Your ignorance and stigma will inspire me to continue to fight, to continue to get better, so that one day I can throw it back in your face.
 I would have told you I was fine when really, I was struggling. I had a mental illness and I was hiding it. I didn't want to tell anyone because I didn't want people to think I was weird, dangerous or "crazy". The stigma has resulted in me feeling excluded and unable to fit in. It has made me feel isolated and like there is something wrong with me.Battling your own mind is one of the hardest things you can do. People with mental illnesses are some of the strongest people you will ever meet. Life with depression is like the ocean - it's unpredictable, it can be frightening but there are moments of stillness.
 I didn't think it would happen to me. I often say that when talking about my mental health, because I didn't. I live in a great city, have a good job, close friends and family and yet it happened to me. I turned into someone I didn't recognise and went from being content myself to being afraid of my own mind. No one ever thinks it will happen to them. They can spend so long fighting alone, living in fear of their own mind. I felt guilty because I thought others had it harder than me. I found it hard to come to terms with that, but I realised mental illnesses do not discriminate, they can happen to anyone at anytime.
Over time these concerns developed and became much more serious; “What if I die in my sleep?”, “What if I’m left on my own?” and “Do I deserve love?”. This little voice of self-doubt I had always lived with had done its job. It had managed to turn me into a self-loathing, angry teenager who wasn’t very nice to be around.It wasn’t until my grandfather died, that the weight of the world truly became too much for my shoulders, and I finally crumbled under the pressure. I remember that day like it was only yesterday. I woke up from another restless sleep and after staring at my social media account for an hour, I headed downstairs. That day felt different. It was harder to move, my stomach hurt, and a wave of sickness washed over me. Then out of nowhere, tears began to stream down my face and the air failed to leave my lungs. As I fell to the floor in a broken mess, my mum flew in from out of nowhere. With a concerned look on her face - that look which only a mother can have - she held me and asked a simple question: “are you ok?”. In that moment those words, which I’m certain I’d heard before, felt like the warmest of hugs and I uttered the words; “I want to die” - I felt ashamed.
Before I knew it, I was sat in the doctor’s office, discussing my thoughts and feelings - not something I was particularly comfortable with at the time. So, what if I was depressed? That’s fine right? The doctor would give me some medication and then I’d be back to my normal self. I had to admit, I never thought I’d suffer from depression. After all, I’m strong willed and the people who suffer from depression are weak right? Another shameful moment of my inexperienced mind. My friends and family played a huge role in my recovery; a group of people who were loving, kind and understanding. If it wasn’t for those people, I wouldn’t be here today.
I assumed that it was said when you were extremely sad, because I think that is the impression given from the media and everyone around us. What I didn’t appreciate, is the feeling of emptiness. It is great that there are a lot more campaigns around mental illness these days, but I would still say that more should be done to raise awareness from an early age.I think to some degree there is still an element of shame. Just recently, I was asked which medication I took. Knowing that the individual most likely wouldn't know the name of the medication, I said Sertraline, rather than saying I took anti-depressants.
Society on a whole see the compulsive rituals of hand washing, cleaning and checking and think that that is all there is to it. What people don't see or understand, is the obsessions that cause the overwhelming anxiety. One symptom I previously experienced was intrusive thoughts whilst driving. I would have powerful thoughts and images of myself swerving my car into pedestrians or oncoming traffic, forcing me to talk to myself, tap on the steering wheel and check the mirror multiple times, in an attempt to get rid of the accompanying feelings of anxiety. I would find myself crying at the wheel and becoming increasingly distressed, due to the feeling of being out of control and swallowed up by the OCD inside of me.OCD I guess could be likened to an iceberg. The tip of the iceberg, visible to all are the compulsions such as; tapping, counting and washing. Under the surface of the water, not visible but still a big part of the structure, are the obsessions such as; fear of contamination, fear of causing harm to others and the feeling that something bad is going to happen. It is very easy to focus on things that are superficial and visible, but it is what is anchoring these behaviours, that are the main problem – and this is what the general public should be educated about.
my work would suffer: I would feint an illness so I could have a day off just because I was unable to face that day, the problem was when I was due to return to work the next day my anxiety would make me panic. I never felt able to talk about my mental health: I would find another excuse not to go or get someone to call for me to say I was still unwell. The problem of course got even worse and I would end up either losing or leaving my job.Because I was genuinely unwell, my doctors would always write the sick note, but until I actually got that note in my hand I would panic in fear that they would say I was ok to return to work. I would find a job, I lasted 3 months or so and then it would all start again.














