You have bad days. Your car doesn’t start, you’re late to work, you miss a meeting – it’s a bad day. You just want to get home, put your feet up and write it off because tomorrow is a fresh start – an opportunity to reset your mind and put yesterday down to “just one of those days.” But you go home, and you cry yourself to sleep. You wake up feeling empty. You feel heartbreakingly sad and you have no idea why. You convince yourself he doesn’t know you, because if he did, he would never want to marry you. If people at work knew what you were really like, they wouldn’t promote you. They would fire you.They would fire you, because you are worthless. He would leave you because you are fundamentally unlovable. But to the outside eye, your life could not be more perfect, and there is no logical reason why you shouldn’t be ecstatic. At your engagement party you fake a smile and tell everyone how incandescently happy you are, but it is all a lie. You smile because you should. You tell people you are happy because that is how you should feel. But you don’t. There is a gaping sadness in you, which is there for no reason at all.
And no one can see it, so maybe it’s just you. Maybe something’s wrong with you. What possible reason do you have to be sad? And you feel ashamed. So you don’t say anything to anyone. Because when you have in the past, they’ve said – “What reason do you have to be sad?” “You should be grateful, some people have it much worse.” “You don’t look like you’re depressed.” “Everyone has a bad day, you’re just overreacting.” So you stay silent. You internalise the struggle. You fight it alone.How do you explain something you don’t understand? How do you tell people how you feel when you don’t feel anything? And when you do feel, it is an onslaught of self-loathing and unparalleled sadness.
You go into work the next day, and you don’t have the energy to lie. You don’t have the energy to pretend to be okay. So you excuse yourself and you go to the bathroom. You make sure no one else is in there, you lock yourself in a stall and collapse onto the floor, crying uncontrollably. You struggle to catch your breath and you panic because you cannot get enough oxygen to your lungs. You cry more. You panic more. You start to remember every bad thing that’s happened in your life, every negative comment, every failed relationship, every single thing that happened which is all your fault. You cry until your facial muscles cramp, until you can catch your breath long enough to remember where you are.
And you sometimes even calm yourself down by telling yourself it won’t last forever, that you can make it all end. You pick yourself up off the floor, readjust your clothes, wipe your tears and open the door. And someone is standing there. Someone is standing there looking at you. But they are looking at you with compassion and understanding. They are looking at you because even though they don’t understand what you feel, they understand that you are in a lot of pain, and you cannot see a way out. That you are struggling. So they step forward, place their hands in yours, and ask for your story.
Despite the fear of being perceived as nosy or intrusive it’s important to remember that when it comes to mental health, checking in with someone reminds them they aren’t alone when they’ve gone quiet.In the summer of 2018 I found myself struggling with depression more than ever before. Work became increasingly difficult to show up to, I feared confiding in anyone about my mental health because I saw myself as a burden.I felt like I’d be draining to listen to, not worthy of being cared about. With my self-esteem at rock bottom, I couldn’t even begin to appreciate the empathy of others.
Days passed wishing someone could see me and my pain.I wanted to talk about how much I was struggling but didn’t know how.I feared scaring others, it became excruciatingly routine to just ignore the phone.Depression became my world, I couldn’t imagine anyone else wanting to see inside so I pushed everyone away. I didn’t want to drag them into my own turmoil.I’d experienced periods of low mood but depression in its entirety overwhelmed me, I felt trapped in my loneliness, convinced that no one wanted to hear the truth about how I was really feeling when they asked.
It was easier to shut people out in and outside of the home with the classic “I’m fine” when in truth I was falling apart, bereft with the fatigue of life becoming progressively joyless.Inside I knew that if a friend was having a tough time, I’d want to know how they were really doing just so they knew they had a friend on the other side of the walls around them. I’d never been in the habit of giving up on people but struggled not to give up on myself.I didn’t know how to accept help because I couldn’t believe I was worthy of it.
 I have suffered two major depressions in my life and also struggled with three different eating disorders. I know what it means when your mind takes control of every thought and distorts every single one into something upsetting, disturbing and self-destructive. I can honestly feel my head warp internal mind processes into an infernal torture where it seems impossible to go forward in life.
There are days I can't get out of bed, where I could sleep for hours on end, where I feel like doing nothing, since nothing at all makes it better or go away. It's always there, my mind, full
of auto-criticism letting me know I'll never be good enough in my business, in my relationships, in my personal achievements. It lets me know I'm worthless, useless, forever below the expectations of society, friends, family and most of all below the expectations I have of myself.
It honestly does not matter what is going on around me. I have people ask me where I am, where I was, because I certainly wasn't present with them at that moment. I have exercised to the point of almost losing consciousness, I've binged on food to fill the emptiness, I have tried to starve myself to make it all stop, I have wanted to leave this world and free myself from the constant torture of my thoughts.
And that is simply exhausting. Can we not accept that we are flawed, have more compassion, let people who are suffering from mental illness know that even if we don't understand, that we are there by their side, even in their worst moments. Just by being there and accepting our weaknesses, that we don't want to change the "mind" of mental illness by "snapping" out of it or by "being happy". Accept that negative emotions and thoughts are part of us, that it's ok for them to be there and to love us even if we are mentally ill, just as you would love and care for someone with a broken arm.
Because I’m like Steve. Sometimes I struggle to keep things together. And as a long-term sufferer of depression, I was experiencing that all too common sinking feeling, triggered by the realisation that this was not going to be a healthy environment for me to work in.nstead, I choose to hide it. And I’ve been hiding it for so long, I’ve become an expert at concealing it from others. Although officially diagnosed at 34, with hindsight I now understand that I developed the condition in childhood, experiencing my first suicidal thoughts as early as 12 years of age. That’s over 30 years of hiding, pretending and lying. It’s become a part of who I am.
I somehow got through the day, suppressing my emotions for later. When the inevitable breakdown happened on the drive home, it marked the release of a month of anxiety, worry and despair. I parked my car in a country lane, unable to face home, contemplating suicide. A frantic mess.No-one is harder on a manic depressive than they are on themselves. Quitting as I did was another self-perceived failure that had to be explained away. There followed a string of excuses to friends, lies dressed up to help me salvage some dignity. The position wasn’t what I thought. Contractual issues. Anything other than the truth. 
The whole episode triggered a complete relapse of my depression, which my GP informed me should now be considered a lifelong condition, requiring long-term medication. I was then signed off work for 4 weeks, from a job that no longer existed. “Do you need a letter?” – “No, I think I’ll be ok.”I find it hard to explain to someone who hasn’t had mental health problems what depression feels like. It’s so many different feelings all at once, yet you feel nothing at the same time.
 Depression crept up slowly and completely wiped me out. It was my counsellor who first mentioned depression to me. Hearing it out loud hurt, but I needed the wakeup call. Looking back, I am glad it was her that noticed first. She has supported me ever since.Admitting you have depression is such a massive step. It took me far too long to admit to family and friends that I was struggling. I felt ashamed and weak. I thought I could fight it alone, but the truth is you need their support more than ever when you aren’t coping. My family were starting to notice I was getting quieter and had lost my spark, yet I still pretended like everything was ok and tried my hardest to carry on as normal which eventually broke me. 
Living with a mental illness can be extremely isolating and lonely. The relationship is two-way: others may not reach out as you have been understandably distant due to feeling unwell, and you may not contact others for the same reasons. It’s a vicious cycle.I find it very hard to open up and express my feelings. Having depression means that I feel like I am worthless, carrying around in my head that I am “unworthy” of other people. If I feel worthless, I’m not likely to contact others as I don’t feel I deserve their attention.
During my gap year I felt very, very isolated. I’d taken a year off as I knew I wasn’t well enough to go to university. All my school friends were doing other things and starting to live their new lives. Yet I was stuck, in some ways getting worse. I spent most of my year trapped in crippling social anxiety. I had little social contact outside my immediate family, even being too anxious to be served by cashiers. Life was very restricted. Friends were understandably busy, and I was slipping into feeling more worthless.Although social contact was hard, messages from other people meant the world to me, but they were few and far between. It would have helped so much if more people had reached out and asked how I was, even if at the time all I could respond was “not great”.
When I figured out something was wrong it was too late. It consumed me. I was so close to going through with it until someone rang and snapped me out of the way I was feeling. At the time I thought I had no one, no family or friends. I felt like I couldn’t speak to anyone about my mental health.I had already lost a close friend to suicide. I’d heard about the high suicide rates amongst men which made me think “why is there no help for men to talk about their mental health” - because at the time I didn’t know how or where to get help from.When friends used to ask how I was feeling, I just used to say “I’m alright thanks” and nothing more. The stigma around mental health made me think I would look weak or stupid for talking about my feelings. So I didn’t. 
I felt trapped and alone, like no-one would understand what I was going through. One day the thoughts going though my head became too much. I lost a job because I broke down and couldn’t handle it anymore. I didn’t get out of bed for weeks because that was my safety area and nothing could go wrong if I stayed there.When that was happening, my family started to notice and took me to the doctors and I got help. If it wasn’t for this I’m sure I wouldn’t be here anymore. 
Sometimes you don’t know what’s going on behind closed doors but all I can say is be there for people and help them find someone before it’s too late. I have now lost another male friend to suicide but there were no signs or anything noticeable to give off something was wrong.I have a wife and son and I used to think they were better off without me, that they could do so much better without me in their lives. I also thought that about everyone else in my life but now I know that isn’t true.




































