
I remember the day when I first hit a low point in life and it's not a nice memory to have. I didn't know how to deal with such a strong mental health issue, so I hid my problems away from family and friends which made my issues worse.I didn't want to get out of bed, I didn't want to socialise with friends and I’d put off family days out. There came a time when I questioned my existence in life; was I a burden? Was I even worth having around? What did I bring to life in general?One day everything just got too much, and I sadly and now regrettably tried to take my own life, not once but twice. It was at this point when I knew I needed professional help and I needed to speak out, which started my recovery to this day.
men are usually surrounded by toxic masculine stereotypes, e.g always being told to ' man up ' which shouldn't be the case - and this is why men find it so hard to open up about their problems whether it be mental health, illnesses, financial problems or addictions.I personally haven't experienced anybody telling me to 'man up' or 'grow some balls' - fortunately I've been brought up around family and friends who have always told me the best way to get through your troubles is to openly speak out, whether that be to a professional or to a family member or friend. Nobody should be made to feel alone and closed in, especially if they're going through changes in life or mental struggles.I took it upon myself to talk on BBC Humberside radio about my experience and started to work closely with smaller organisations to help beat the stigma surrounding mental health towards men. 
I failed to understand what was going on. I was struggling with low mood, short term memory loss, and general lethargy and lack of motivation – but she saw me as being lazy and awkward.It built to a head. My wife found me in tears and when she asked me what was wrong, I told her that I had figured out that her and the boys would be better off without me. Her response “Don’t be so stupid!” It was at this time I went to our GP and was put back onto anti-depressants for the first time since my dad had died.It would just have been nice to have a “How are you getting on?” or “Are you okay?” but I felt very isolated and alone, unable to talk to anyone for fear of getting the same reaction from others.  I was definitely made to feel “less than a man” by her and it was most certainly a concern that I would be viewed as weak by others.Ultimately, this led to our marriage breaking down and I had to move out.
I’ve spent the last 7 years essentially hiding from everyone – and most importantly, from myself – that I was still suffering from depression. This has affected my physical health too, and I now have IBS and migraines associated with anxiety and depression.I’ve had a great deal of time off work sick, and nearly lost my job because of it. But it was the thing that gave me the kick I needed to admit what was going.I can honestly say it was one of the hardest things I’ve ever had to do admit I need help!
I started struggling badly with insomnia - something I’ve dealt with before due to childhood trauma. It made me extremely anxious and depressed. I felt ashamed, but also petrified that I’d never be able to sleep properly again, and that this would completely erode my sanity.My problems returned as soon as I went back to work in early January. I couldn’t sleep and the anxiety and depression swept back in. Suicidal thoughts flew into my mind. I went into the office as much as I could, but my mind was consumed by fear and panic all the time.I try not to focus on the bad experiences, but it’s a struggle not to. When I hit a rough patch a while back and needed some support from a previous employer I had an experience that really scarred me. 
I was in the midst of a prolonged period of depression and my anxiety levels were sky high. I spoke to my manager about it as I was getting increasingly worried about my low mood and ability to balance my workload. When my anxiety is at its worst I struggle to make even the simplest of decisions, I agonise over every possible option and outcome and it can make being productive at work impossible.When I told my manager that I was struggling with depression and anxiety their first response was to make a joke about it: “well, we’d better get you carted off to the loony bin then”. At least I think this was an attempt at a joke, if it was it didn’t land!.This crushed me. I felt stupid and ashamed, but perhaps worst of all I felt like I couldn’t rely on my workplace for support when I needed it. There were countless other occasions where my manager made jokes about my mental health, both when it was just the two of us and in front of my colleagues.
So, I kept working, I kept ignoring my body and mind when it was on the verge of spiralling, until eventually I ended up at rock bottom. I couldn’t leave my bed, let alone my house. I was consumed with impulsive and harmful thoughts about hurting myself or ending my life. I was signed off from work for six weeks, had a few emergency trips to hospital and was put under the care of my community mental health team.Shortly after returning to work a new manager started. I thought things might get better, but they became worse. My new manager had a similar approach to dealing with people with mental health problems as the last one. They made jokes and mean remarks, and at one point I was taken aside and told “I heard rumours you’re a self-harmer and tried to kill yourself, if that’s true you need to tell me”.
I’d gone from an unstoppable person who could achieve anything, to someone who was scared to face the world. Suddenly, anxiety and depression surrounded my every waking moment. All I wanted to do was go home, I wasn’t me. I would wake up scared about having an anxiety attack, tension headache or down day. Sleep was the only relief, which as part of a despairing irony, became harder to come by as the condition continued.
I went to counselling when I returned from my holiday. I thought, “I’ll go for 3-4 sessions and I’ll be good as new, it was just that I was away from home and a bit shook”. I went in hoping for a magic cure for my anxiety and depression, but I quickly realised that this doesn’t exist. Over time it became apparent that this was more serious than I first thought. Over-exercising had allowed me to push down my issues and losing sport was not only a grief in itself but it also meant that I wasn't able to forget anymore, I had to deal with my demons.I found it very difficult to accept what was happening to me. I was used to being numb to my emotions or at least not letting them get in my way. Now I was dealing with the idea of carrying this label of anxiety and depression everywhere I went. I felt overwhelmed, weak, powerless.
I can wake up some days and feel like I’m ready to take on anything. But on one side of the bed, I’ll have my anxiety badgering me about the million and one things that will go wrong today. And on the other side of the bed, my depression will remind me about the social event that I’ll be taking part in later that evening and casually reminding me that no matter how confident I’ll appear to be, that the people I think that love me in fact don’t, they’d rather I not be there, and that I’m weak and eventually push everyone I love away from me. And then I get up and get on with my day, after crying on my pillow, and admitting defeat.Some would call me over-emotional. Some will tell me, and have told me before, to simply move past my problems and carry on. Some people just don’t understand how you can’t just put the thing that’s worrying you, or dragging you down, in the bin and never look back. Sometimes I am able to do this, and I feel better. But when I can’t, please understand that it’s not that I don’t want to feel happy or stop my brain racing. Believe me, if I could do it all the time, I would. But I am constantly battling my anxiety and depression, and sometimes they win, and it can be hard to control. Imagine playing your favourite video game and you have the controller, but sometimes, the controls will bug out, not work like they should, and it starts ruining your game. That is what my anxiety and depression feel like to me.
I don’t blame people that don’t understand my anxiety and depression, I really don’t. From an outsider looking in, it may just look like I’m over-reacting, that I’m dramatic and attention seeking. I’m very aware of what it may look like, but I promise it is not that. I take antidepressants to help keep my anxiety and depression on the low-down, but that doesn’t mean that I am ‘cured’. It also doesn’t mean that I am sick, or that I can’t be like anyone else, do things that everyone else can and live a relatively normal life. Because I can. I just occasionally put my training wheels back on when I feel like I need them.I don’t need you to tell me to ‘stop worrying’ because I will always worry, even if my face and body language says otherwise. I sometimes need that reassurance that everything is ok, that I am loved, and that you won’t leave me when I need you the most, even if in the depths of my brain, my depression is telling me it’s not true. But I also don’t need you to be afraid of me, because underneath the dark cloud that my anxiety and depression form, there’s a normal human being who wants to be loved, is kind, understanding, has a sense of humour (or so I’d like to think) and always tries to put a smile on her face and on other people’s, even if it feels like I’m losing my battle.
In 2012 I graduated with a 2:1 degree, made amazing friends and I was working for a company I loved. Unfortunately, things didn’t work out where I was working and I decided to leave my job and search for another one. It was a hard decision walking away from the company I loved but I knew I had my education and experience on my side.In February 2013 I attended a football match, I was the biggest football fan in the world! I watched games from all different leagues regardless of who was playing, but visiting this particular stadium was a big part of my life, it was like a dream. What I didn’t realise was I was gaining anxiety. I was sat in high seats and had an overwhelming feeling, I had no idea what this was - all I knew was that I felt light-headed continuously, which lead to me experiencing my first ’fight-or-flight’ sensation. I ran to the closest tube station and went home confused and emotional
After this episode, things just got worse. I didn’t leave the house, I constantly felt paranoid and emotional, my confidence had completely gone. I become completely unsociable. I was unemployed and applying for at least 10 jobs a day doing anything.
It took someone close to me to see the signs of depression. My idea of depression was an older person who had lost everything, not someone who’s just graduated from university with their whole life ahead of them. This goes to show mental health can impact anyone at any age, at any stage of their life.
Leading up to the day I opened up about my mental health I had struggled with anxiety for many years. It affected me in many ways and eventually opened the door for depression to come in, which would then take hold of my life for over a year. Throughout that time trying to deal with my anxiety and depression brought with it a lot of negative habits. The build-up of these bad habits would eventually get me to the point where the thought of doing something I used to enjoy would set off negative feelings about myself and my life. Now because this would repeatedly happen.
I lost all interest in the hobbies I would have enjoyed in the past. And this was because of that internal tug of war that I was having to go through every day. On one side I would know that I had stopped doing what I enjoyed, and it would make me feel so ashamed and angry that I was letting this get the better of me. But on the other end, if I did try to push myself to something, it would be met with immediate anxiety because I knew those feelings of guilt would soon follow.Either way, I couldn’t win so I would be losing days and weeks due to this internal battle and by the time this had been going on for so long, I had eventually convinced myself that I didn’t deserve to be happy anymore. If I wasn’t at work, I would just spend my time stuck in this tug of war. Never giving myself the time to relax and feel truly happy.
The internal hatred I had for myself had reached what felt like a peak, but somehow still felt like it would continue to get worse. I felt lost, scared and that the potential for me to have a good life was over.
Throughout all of this, I was able to hide it from the people in my life. I would do this because I did not want to push these negative feelings on anyone else because I didn’t think anyone would take it seriously, and they have their own lives to deal with so why care about this.
I started my first year at college, being that independent person my parents always wanted me to be, but then everything just came tumbling down. My family and I all went through a very traumatic time and that’s where it all began.I lost my way a bit. I didn’t want to go to college, I didn’t want go out and socialise like every other teenager would be doing. I locked myself away. Over the following months I found myself rapidly getting worse. I didn’t want to speak to anyone about how I was feeling, especially my family. I always felt like the glue in the family, holding everyone together, so I kept silent with my problems.
At the age of 18 I decided to move out and live on my own. At first I was loving life. Having my own place, my own pets, doing what I wanted when I wanted. Then I slowly realised how lonely I was and how much I was struggling. I was working somewhere where I was getting paid minimum wage so I couldn’t afford anything apart from just about managing to pay the bills. I pushed all my close friends away because I just didn’t want to leave the house. This is when I realised I’d slipped back into depression.After 3 years of pretending to be this happy, bubbly, energetic character, I just broke. I was tired. Tired of pretending. I pulled myself together and reached out for help. I was finally diagnosed with anxiety, depression and an eating disorder. I felt free in a sense, a massive weight I’d been carrying for 4 years had been lifted off of my 
shoulders.
Throughout the process of getting the help I needed, I heard typical comments like ‘just be happy then’, ‘stop worrying so much then and you’ll be fine’. But I also heard things like ‘I didn’t realise you were struggling so much, you hid it so well’. That was the issue, I shouldn’t have had to hide it. I wouldn’t have needed to if people had a better understanding about mental health.I found it so difficult to admit to myself and others around me how much I was struggling. I had and still do have a brilliant support network from my partner, family and a few friends. I knew telling them would be difficult, but I also knew they love me know matter what, which I am so grateful for. It’s the rest of the world that’s scary. The lack of understanding and knowledge that people have towards those with a mental illness. If someone breaks their arm, everyone jumps to them to sign their cast. If someone has a mental health problem, people run because they think we’re unpredictable and strange.
I recognise now that it has been for the majority of my life. But it took a long time for me to realise and accept this. I didn't want to be "ill". The stigma surrounding mental illness was built within me, passed down through generations of people "pulling themselves together". I'd hear some of those close to me talk about victims of suicide, they would reflect on stories they had heard and use words like selfish and crazy. I remember feeling so much empathy and pain at those words. I understood feeling like my family would be better off without me. Like there wasn't going to be a future that I could play a part in. I thought that was my fault, I thought I was “selfish” too.t wasn't until I was 18 and at university that I knew it wasn't just "teenage blues" and I wasn't "shy and one day you'll grow out it".
I had reached the point in my life where I finally felt some independence. It slowly dawned on me (with the help of a lot of online research, cheers Google), the sweaty, breathy unsuccessful attempts to walk through the door of my uni seminars and the eventual slow tearful walk back to halls, were not just because I was "shy". Neither was my "awkwardness” the reason I would have to ring my friends to come and open their front door, when I arrived at their house, for crippling fear of knocking and not knowing who could be behind it when it opened, having not planned out precisely what I would say and then freeze unable to articulate myself.
I would sleep through the daylight, not eating, not doing anything, just being trapped to the spot and drifting in and out of consciousness. That wasn't because I was "lazy". I wasn't just "heartbroken" because my boyfriend and I broke up. I was depressed and self-sabotaging, misusing substances and driving people away because I felt unworthy and broken.Some of them did walk away but some stuck around and I'm thankful for both because I know it's difficult to support someone who is unable to admit there is something wrong. The fear of ridicule or claims of "attention seeking" made it feel impossible.
We need to stop saying that people are “attention seeking”, because speaking about your struggles is something that most people find very difficult to do. As someone who struggles a lot with anxiety issues, I often feel I am being judged when in retrospect it may have been a harmless comment. It is so important to be kind to anyone, at any chance you get, because you have no idea how much your words and actions can impact a person’s mental state. This goes for both positive and negative acts or comments, they can both have a lasting impact.Oh and PLEASE, if you notice someone has scars or wounds which you believe may have been caused by self-harm, do not ask them about it in public. By all means, ask if they’re doing okay, but do it in a one on one situation. Asking someone about this topic when they’re with a group of people is likely to make them clam up, not start a conversation about it which could help them get the help they need.
If you think someone is struggling mentally, just check they’re okay, let them know they matter to you. And to anyone struggling, it is OKAY to want to be alone, alone time can be great , but being in a comfortable environment with friends and family can do a lot of good as well.
to anyone who doesn't understand or hasn't experienced it before is to imagine a weight pulling your body down, so heavy that every day you have to summon up the strength to push against it and to lighten the impact. Some days I'm just about able to ease it off a little and get on with the things I need to; there's still a strain there but it's manageable and I can stave it off for a little while if I’m distracted.However, other times I just don't have the strength and energy to push against it and I feel powerless, completely worn down and unable to move forward. That's what it feels like for me, so intense and so unavoidable.It’s debilitating and complex and no one experience is the same, but we're trying really really hard. There’s no one-size-fits-all when it comes to treatment either.
I wanted the people I care for and confided in to open their hearts and minds to understand that depression isn’t a choice. I didn’t want to be depressed - nobody wants to be depressed.Being told I was wrong for being depressed, made me feel even more hopeless and incapable of overcoming it with the ‘’weak mind’’ that I was being told I had. I felt like a burden to those I cared about and as if I had let my family and friends down, for letting what was considered “a bad mood” get the better of me. I was told that I had a history of being depressed for so long, that I’d probably be depressed forever - and that it was only a matter of time till there would be another thing that happened to trigger it all over again.When I sought therapy to prevent that from happening, the person I trusted enough to confide in made me feel like my reasons weren’t worthy enough to seek professional help over; they would have been able to get over it all easily or not let it bother them
However, I still went to therapy, and it wasn’t a pointless road to go down. My reasons were just as valid as anyone else’s, and without help, my mind would have been stuck in the same place forever and the hopeless thoughts would have taken over me. It took strength to battle my depression and courage to grab the bull by the horns.I think it’s easy for someone who has no experience with it personally, to assume that people who are depressed or experiencing thoughts of suicide are weak - but that’s wrong. They aren’t weak, they are alone in their thoughts and tired of battling it till they’ve lost their ability to think. I think it’s important to let people experiencing suicidal thoughts or any level of depression know they are not alone and give them positive energy to feed off. Show them that there is support available and there is still beauty in life!  Even if you don’t understand or can’t relate to people in these positions, it can help just to listen.
Following seven years of sporadic periods of chronic anxiety and panic attacks induced by both smoking marijuana as a teenager and my parents’ break up, I was at university, 22 and suffering a reactive bout of depression triggered by the break-up of a tumultuous relationship. I cried and cried. I felt incredibly exposed and ashamed about how I felt and for the way in which I was dealing with anything disrupting my life and mental health. He ultimately delved very directly into my childhood, where my issues and insecurities may have stemmed from. My father’s affair and subsequent parental divorce, the breakdown of my family unit and loss of my childhood home, my own striving for aesthetic perfection (after being put on a pedestal to perform and entertain by my well-meaning parents), my body dysmorphia disorder and my anxious outlook on the world stemming from an over protective parent all arose.
It was a minefield of information and facts, which were both overwhelming and numbing. Slowly I started to process and understand how immediate circumstances, upbringing and ingrained deep-seated damage all contributed towards the way I felt in general, and how I reacted to certain situations. Fifteen years later, this is still a work in progress I draw these humorous yet strangely accurate comparisons to being poorly with food poisoning or a bug, or needing the loo – the toxins need to exit the body in order for you to begin your physical recovery. It is no different with emotional illness. I refer to the latter particularly when people need to cry and try to stifle it. It is important to listen to one’s body. Humour and self-deprecation often help me to help others and mysely of course considering another person’s boundaries and approaching things with discretion and sensitivity.
Trying to break down a mass of issues into individual challenges rather than perceiving things as one huge lump of problem also really helps.There has been far too much stigma attached to admitting we are struggling with our mental health, let alone opening up enough to talk about it. It is positive to reason out and rationalise things with others; and ourselves - verbally or written. This is especially important when people are not struggling with a mental health problem to be educated and familiarised with the concept; the reality that so many have to live often form an hour-to-hour basis just to get through. There are still barriers to mental health whether it be ignorance, lack of information and understanding or lack of first-hand experience but I am confident that day by day, week by week, month by month and year by year this is dissipating within society.Now I have opened my can of metaphorical brain worms, I will never seal it again.
And publicly, I never let my guard down for fear of judgement. But emotionally, I was aflame with terror and self-hatred. As someone who has struggled with eating disorders and anxiety since I was twelve, I am somewhat used to intense personal turmoil. Depression was something else. It was as if there was a cavity in my soul that was sore and inflamed with sorrow and loneliness. I had to clutch myself, my arms wrapped tightly around my torso, to keep from disintegrating. It was as if I had been punched in the chest by an iron-clad fist. A hole in my heart yearned for healing and love. 






























